~ /%Rn03‘

' ’ BUBEAU OF ORGANIZED CRIM 17 January 2014

Gang Investigations Division Q]
iﬁ

TO: Nicholas J. Roti ﬂ
Chief "'~‘=-"I:

Bureau of Organized Crime _,

T

Attention: Maureen C. Biggane 5%
Lieutenant ”
Bureau of Organized Crimes

FROM: Diana Cordova—Nestad
Police Officer
Gang Investigations Division

SUBJECT: Quote / Purchase of three XFM Unit Servers.

Attached to this report you will find a quote from Solia}m:KbVE
Consulting of Chicago Illinois. This quote is for three XFM3—0408
4GB Windows, 8GB Database storage devices. These devices are
servers and will be used to administer and back up all 27 of the
Bureau of Organized Crimes Databases. Included in this quote is a
required CPU upgrade, and a maintenance contract for one year which
includes hardware replacement and support. This equipment is
required to replace the current server which is nearing the end of
its useful life. The current server is over five years old and will
not support the web basing features in the newly developed databases
for the Bureau of Organized Crimes. The new server includes a back
up system which will guarantee the safe keeping of all of the
Bureaus data. The servers are configured as fail over (redundancy)
where if one of the servers fails the system will continue to
function with no interruption or data loss to the end users. In
addition, there will be no interruption to the end user during
system back ups.

This equipment is covert in nature and knowledge of its existence
should be kept within the Bureau of Organized Crime. The cost for
equipment is $59,670.00. Because this equipment will be used for
both narcotics related investigations and other investigations it is
recommended that 1505 funds and l505ML funds in equal am unts be
used to pay this equipment.

  

Aooroveo:

’ “ . "’ Diana Cordova—Nestad
Deputy C" Police Officer
Bureau of ¢ -— ized Crime Gang Investigations D

1C 0 as J.
Chief
Bureau of Organized Crime

  
  

     

=awo
_\;:,3
=# N0
5G3AI3O3H

         

W

 
  

SW‘ ‘
‘(W ’ 02.”? ‘ LS
)ﬁ\4L.\

    
 

oti

W5\T”‘w‘ )H '

Attachments: Quote No. 1216 / Technical Specifications

