/l5‘;joie (34.1


BUREAU OF ORGANIZED CRIME ll June 20l5 i:.;“;:§
Gang Investigations Division 
TO: Anthony J. Riccio 
Chief‘ :3‘
Bureau of Organized Crime '-"*4
Attention: Maureen C. Biggane
Lieutenant

Bureau of Organized Crime

FROM: Christo phcr .1. Kennedy
A Commander
Gang Investigations Division

SUBJECT: Quote# OU0-04689-VSYSDO Purchase one Pen-Link Master
Database Server and two dav on site training session with hardware
installation, conﬁguration conﬁrmation and software updates for
Bureau’s wire server

Recently discussions were held with Pen—Link ot'Nebrasl<a regarding
pricing and training issues. As part 0 ttheir att.empt to foster a positive and ongoing relationship
with the Chicago Police "Departments Bureau of Organized Crime, Pen—'Link has offered the
following at a reduced rate. The original quote from Pen-Link for g3_I_i_: the Training and
Conﬁguration was 55 l 0,000.00. Attached to this report you will find anew quote from 'PEN—Link
ofLincoln NE. The quote is for a new server and a two day training session for all ofthe Police
Technicians assigned to the Technical Lab. The two day onsite training and system evaluation
visit also includes confirming that newly installed hardware is properly conﬁgured, and
configuring soitwarc updates and upgrades. The visits will also conﬁrm VPN connections to
each o F the telecom service companies, provide training and demonstrate several troubleshooting
techniques. This equipment is used by members of the Gang Investigations Division and the
Narcotics Division to conduct PEN registers investigations State E303 and Federal Title III
investigations.

This equipment, hardware, training and conﬁguration assistance of
hardware is covert in nature and knowledge of its existence should he kept within the
Bureau of Organized Crime. A pre—approved categories form is included with this request.
The total cost for this hardware, training and configuration assistance is $l4,2l3.88. The
provider will make their availability contingent upon the shutdown of current investigations
utili/.ing the equipment to be upgraded. The anticipated date range is between 5 July 2015 and
30 July 2015. Because these services will be used for narcotics related investigations it is
recommended that 1505 funds be used to fund this expense.

BUREAU OF ORGANIZED CRIME "ll June 2015
Gang Investigations Division

SUBJECT: Ouotc# ()UO~04689-VSYSDG Purchase one Pen-Link Master Database
Server and two dav on site training session with hardware installation, configuration
conﬁrmation and software updates for Bureau’s wire server

Signature Page Only

    

Approved: Commander
Gang Investigations Division

 

Bureau of Organized Crime

Attachments: Quote QUO-04689-'V8Y5DU
Pre-Approved Categories Sheet
C”?/I17‘

P EN°L1NKt     more

It’s the Key"

 

5944 VanDervoorl'. Drive | Lincoln, NE 68516 QUo-04639-V3Y5D0

402.421.8857 phone | 402.421.9287 fax Date: B/912015

BILL T0: SH": To;

Darren Prouty 91712015 Chicago PD-Chicago-Technical Service Unit

  

FOB Origin Ground Net 30

  
  

      

1 PENLINK MASTER DATABASE SERVER . I - $1G.607.80 $10,607.80

'1-
Dell T630 or R730 (Depending on Customer Requirements) | Dual Multi Core Proc. | 64138 RAM | (8) 600GB 10k RPM 2.5 inch Hard Drives, Redundant
Power Supply | Pen; RAID Controller | Redundant Power Supplies | Dual Embedded Gigabil Ethernet NIC | Rack Chassis wl’ Rapid Rails | iDRAC
Enterprise E 3-year Next Business Day Support | Windows Server Standard. Symantec AV and Netop lnc|uded[Need to add Windows Server Device CALS
-- CALS Based on # of workstations)

1 HARDWARE SHIPPING ' ' I $106.08 $105.08

$10.?13.88

 
 
   

1 CONSULT - ' - $3,500.00 . $3,500.00

LINCOLN Consulting Services: On-Site 2-days- includes travel expenses

 

$3,500.00
$0.00
New Pen-Link Server with on-site installation. Technician will be
on-site for two days to confirm existing hardware is set—up $000
properly, evaluate network and confirm all connections are
accurate. Technician is also available to train administration on $14,213.88
how to properly set—up Pens and Title III intercepts in LINCOLN as
well as miscellaneous topics as time allows.
Pen—Link, Ltd is a U.S. - Based Small Business DUNS: 195956636 1 TIN: 47-0707585 I CAGE: 0K6H9

Page: 1

PEN'LtNK .        QUOTE

It’s the liey”

 
 

The following terms and definitions apply throughout this document.
1.1. Pen—Link Software. Pen—Link Software is software developed and manufactured by Pen—Link, Ltd.

1.2. Pen—Link Customer (also "C ustomer"). A Pen—Link Customer. or Customer. is any agency or other entity that has one or more current, valid
Licenses for Pen-Link Software purchased from or through Pen«Link, Ltd.

1.3. Basic Technical Support Package. Entities our customers to normal business hours telephone support at Pen-Link. Ltd.’s published number
andlor assistance via e-mail.

1.4. Standard Maintenance and Support. Standard Maintenance is a Maintenance option that includes Software Updates, Software Upgrades. and
Basic Technical Support as defined herein.

1.5. Premium Maintenance and Support. Premium Maintenance is a Maintenance option that includes Software Updates, Software Upgrades, and
Premium Technical Support as defined herein.

1.6. Software Update. A Software Update is an enbancementmincludiitg additions, changes, and bug fixes—to Pen-Link Software that is already in
the 8Dl3|icab|e commercial market, Software Updates occur within the same major version number of an existing software product. For example,
replacing Pen—Link v8.1.29.0 with Pen—Link v8.1.30.0 would constitute a Software Update. Such an update is often referred to as a “New Build” of the
Pen—Link Software.

1.7. Software Upgrade. A Software Upgrade is the replacement of an older major version of an existing Pen-Link Software product or products, with
a newer major version of a Pen~Link Software product or products, to the extent required to maintain the same operational functionality that was
supported by the Pen—Link Software prior to the upgrade. For example, upgrading from Pen-Link Version 7 to Pen—Link Version 8 (where 8 is the
newer major version) would constitute a Software Upgrade, so long as the installation of the newer version of the Pen—Link Software supported at least
the same operational functionality that the Customer had under Pen-Link version 7. Upgrades do not apply to new software products that Pen~Link,
Ltd. may release to the commercial market from time to time in the future.

1.8. Basic Technical Support (also “Basic Support"). Basic Technical Support is a Support option that includes telephone-based Technical
Support for the Pen-Link Software licensed by the Customer. Basic Technical Support also includes assistance via email or other automated
processes such that Pen-Link, Ltd. may deem fit to offer. Basic Technical Support may be obtained by contacting Pen-Link, Ltd. via its published,
main telephone number (currently 402-42143857). its general support email account (sUppoi‘t@pen|ink.com), or its Wond Wide Web site
(www.gen|inl<.com). Basic Technical Support is available Monday through Friday, from 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM Central time, except for holidays.

1.9. Premium Technical Support (also "Premium Support"). Premium Technical Support is a Support option that includes all of the support
services offered with Basic Technical Support (Section 1.8), plus Emergency After-Hours support for live communication interception and collection
operations. Emergency After-Hours support services may be accessed through methods, including telephone access. that are provided to the
customer at the time of purchase. Emergency After-Hours support services are available Monday through Friday, from 5:01 PM — 7:59 AM Central
time and all day Saturday 8. Sunday, including holidays.

1.10. Maintenance and Support Agreement ("Agreement"). This Maintenance and Support Agreement is the Agreement between Pen-Link, Ltd.
and the Customer regarding the terms and conditions under which the Maintenance and Support Services described in this document are purchased
and provided.

   

2.1. Maintenance is an optional service offered by Pen—Link Ltd. to augment a purchase of Pen-Link Software. Maintenance may be purchased by a
Pen-Link Customer along with. or subsequent to, the purchase of Pen—Link Software.

2.2. Maintenance is offered only pursuant to a Maintenance and Support Agreement between the Customer and Pan-Link, Ltd.

2 3. Pen—Link, Ltd. offers two levels of Maintenance that a Customer may purchase: Standard Maintenance and Premium Maintenance, as defined in
Sections 1.4 and 1,5 respectiveiy.

Pen-Link, Ltd is a U.S. - Based Small Business DUNS: 195956636 I TIN: 47-0707585 I CAGE: 0K6H9

Page: 2

PEN'LlNK            «woe

it's the Key”

 

2.4, Maintenance applies only to software developed and manufactured by Pen—Link, Ltd. Maintenance does not apply to software devetoped and
manufactured by companies other than Pen-Link, Ltd. Unless otherwise specified in a separate, written agreement between Pen~Linl<, Ltd. and the
Customer, to which Pen—Link, Ltd. is a signatory party, Maintenance does not include updates. upgrades, or bug fixes to, or new releases of. any third-
party software or hardware purchased through Pen-Link, Ltd. or with the assistance of Pen—Link, Ltd. Support for third party software and hardware
products bundled with Pen-Link. Ltd. licensed Pen-Link Software is available only according to the third—pa:ty manufacturers support policies.

25. All Maintenance deliveries are subject to the terms and conditions of the applicabte End User License Agreement (“EULA") for the Licensed
Software.

 

3.1. Technical Support (“Support”) is an optional service offered by Pen-Link, Ltd. to support a Customer in the authorized use of licensed Pen—Link
Software.

3.2. Support is offered only pursuant to a Maintenance and Support Agreement between the Customer and Pen—Link, Ltd.

33. Pen-Link, Ltd. offers two levels of Technical Support: Basic Technical Support and Premium Technical Support, as deﬁned in Sections 1.8 and
1.9 respectively.

3.4. Pen-Link. Ltd. will make every reasonable attempt to answer 21 Customers Support questions and address a Customers Support concerns.
However, Support i5 offered on a good faith, diligent effort basis only, and Pen-Link, Ltd. may not be able to resotve every request for Support.

3.5. Technical Support is provided for ongoing, operational use of the licensed Pen»Link Software: Support is not intended to be a substitute for
training or professional services necessary forthe implementation or system redesign of the licensed Pen-Link Software, which are outside the scope
of this agreement. All such services, including without limitation, training, on-site assistance, consultation, custom programming and other software
customizations, network design. and database and network administration, may be provided pursuant to separate agreements with and by Pen-Link,
Ltd.

3.6. Unless otherwise speciﬁed in a separate, written agreement between Pen-Link. Ltd. and the Customer, to which Pen-Link. Ltd. is a signatory
party, Support is availabte onlyfor the current and immediately preceding version of the licensed Pen—Link Software. Support for a previous version of
Pen-Lfnl-: Software is provided up to a maximum of eighteen (1 8) months after the release of the current version of software, provided that the
Customer and Pen-Link. Ltd. are parties to a current Maintenance and Support Agreement,

3.7. Unless otherwise specified in a separate, written agreement between Pen—Link, Ltd. and the Customer, to which Pen—Link, Ltd. is a signatory
party, Support does not include any of the following:

3.?.1, Support for database products or so-called “DBMS" or Database Management Systems, including without limitations. setup and
alteration and/or configuration of such products, and resolution of errors related directly to such products.

33.2. Resolving network, workstation. or other environmental errors not directly related to the licensed Pen»Link Software.

3.7.3. Support for any licensed Pen—Link Software working on or with any version of any database, Database Management System. operating
system, or other hardware or software product or system that is not specificatly identified as interoperable and compatible with the specific
version of the license Pen-Link Software being used.

314. Suppozt for any “alpha,” '“beta." or other preproduction release of any software. including Pen—Link Software.
3.7.5. Support for any changes to Pen—Link Software made outside of the product‘s scope by a customer or by any third party.

31.6. Support for any ticensed Pen—Link Software that is used for a purpose, or in a manner, for which it was not designed.

 

4.1. Maintenance and Support Agreements are options made available by Pen—Link. Ltd. for a Customer to purchase.

4.2. Maintenance and Support Agreements are offered on an annual basis.

4.3. Unless otherwise specified in a separate, written agreement between Pen-Link, Ltd. and the Customer, to which Pen-Link, Ltd. is a signatory
party, Maintenance and Support Agreements will renew automatically at the end of each annual term, provided that the Customer pays the applicable
renewal fees.

Pen—Link, Ltd is a U8. — Based Small Business DUNS: 195956636 /TIN: 4T—OTOT585 f CAGE: 0K6H9

Page: 3

PEN°LINK        were

its the Key"

 

4.4. Unless otherwise speciﬁed in a separate, written agreement between Pen—Link, Ltd. and the Customer, to which Pen—Link, Ltd. is a signatory
party, a Customer's Maintenance and Support Agreement is to be paid at the start of each annual term.

4.5. Payment. The Customer will be invoiced priorto any annual Maintenance and Support term (initial or renewal terms). The Customer agrees to
make payment to Pen—Link, Ltd. no later than thirty (30) days from the date of the invoice. unless otherwise agreed upon in writing. Unless otherwise
instructed, the Customer will make payment directly to Pen~Llnk. Ltd.

4.6. Pen-Link. Ltd.’s obiigations hereunder are subject to the Customer's timely payment for Maintenance and Support. Failure of the Customer to pay
fees in a timely manner for any term of Maintenance and Support may. at the sole discretion of Pen~Link. Ltd., result in the termination or suspension
of Maintenance and Support services.

4,7. Lapses and Reinstatement. If a Customers Maintenance and Support agreement terminates as a result of expiration or othenrvise pursuant to
this Agreement. and the Customer decides to reinstate the Agreement, the Customer will be required to pay the applicable Maintenance and Support
fees for the lapsed period (the time elapsed between the Agreement expiring and subsequently being reinstated}, plus a reinstatement fee equal to
i0% of the fees for the lapsed period.

4.8. Taxes. The Customer is responsible for payment of all applicabletaxes, value added taxes. or other taxes ( however designated) reiated to the
Maintenance and Support of the Licensed Software. unless otherwise agreed upon and stated in writing.

4.9. This Agreement will automatically temtinate for each Licensed Pen—Link Software product upon termination of the EULA corresponding to such
Pen—Link Software product.

4.10. The Customer may terminate this Agreement for Convenience. but the Customer will not be entitled to a refund of any paid lees in such an
event

4.11. Additional Orders. Orders by the Customer for additional Pen—Link Software products or additional licenses of Pen—Link Software products will
increase the Customer‘s Maintenance and Support fees under this Agreement.

 

5.1. Pen—Link. Ltd. warrants that the Maintenance and Support services provided to the Customer under this Agreement shall be performed with due
care, and in a professional and workmanlike manner. Pen—Link, Ltd. does not otherwise warrant the accuracy or completeness of any services
provided pursuant this Agreement. PEN«L|NK, LTD. DISCLAIMS ANY AND ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, EXPRESS, IMPLEED OR OTHERWISE.
IN CONNECTION WITH THE SUBJECT OF THIS AGREEMENT. IN NO EVENT, UNDER ANY THEORY OF LAW. SHALL EITHER PARTY
ANDIOR ITS AFFILIATES BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR
LOST PROFITS ANDIOR ITS AFFILIATES ARE ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. PEN-LINK. LTD '8 LIABILITY UNDER
THIS AGREEMENT SHALL NOT EXCEED THE PREPAID AND UNUSED PORTION OF THE CUSTOMERS MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT
FEES PAID TO PEN-LENK, LTD. PEN-LINK. LTD. SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ALL RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY SERVICES PROVIDED BY
ANY PARTNER OR ANY OTHER THIRD PARTY.

5.2. It is the sole responsibility of the Customer to make and maintain adequate backup copies of software and data.

5.3. In no event will Pen-Link. Ltd. be responsible for lost data.

 

6.1. Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire Agreement between the Customer and Pen-Link, Ltd. related to the subiect matter
hereof, and additions or modifications shall be binding upon the parties only if the same shall be in writing and duly executed by the Customer and a
duly authorized officer of Pen-Link. Ltd. The Licensed Peri-Link Software is licensed under a separate End User License Agreement (EULA) and
professional services, if any. are provided under a separate professional services agreement. The terms and conditions of any Customer purchase
order are only binding on Pen-Link. Ltd. if they are agreed to in writing by an authorized Pen—Link, Ltd. officer and in a document other than the
purchase order.

6.2. Waiver. The waiver or failure of either party to exercise in any respect any right shall not be deemed a waiver of any further or future right.

6.3. Assignment. The Customer may assign this Agreement only in connection with a proper and valid assignment of the corresponding EULA to the
extent permitted there under; provided that the Customer gives written notice of such assignment to Pen-Link. Ltd. Pen~Link. Ltd. may freely assign
this Agreement to a purchaser of that portion of Pen—Link Ltdfs business to which this Agreement relates, to the surviving corporation in the event of a
merger. and to any atﬁliate or third-party whom Pen—Link authorizes to provide Maintenance and Support for the Licensed Pen—Link Software of the
nature contemplated hereby

Pen—Link, Ltd is a US. — Based Small Business DUNS: 195956636 1' TIN: 47—O7D7585 I CAGE: OKGHQ

Page: 4

Books Subscriptions and Membershi

 

DEED DE DE

Payment for Goodslservices Procured Outside of Department of
Procurement or other formal Contracts —
Pre-Appro ved Categories

Educational 8; instruction Material
Conference Attendance, Seminar
Attendance, Meeting Expense
License

Professional Organization and
Association Dues

Newspaper, Periodical, Magazine
Professional Journal

Notary Public

Electronic Media Subscriptions

Financial Obligations

DDDDDDDDDDDDD

Debt Service

Employee Reimbursement
Inter-Governmental Payment
Loan

Grant

Reimbursements

Salary I Wage (City Employee Pay)
Airline Agreements

Stipends

Taxes

Refunds

Rent Subsidies

Land Acquisition

Insurance & Risk Management

D

Premium

Confidential lnvestiqations

I

Confidential Investigations

P_$.

DDDDUDDDDDDDDDE

Expens

Court Reporter
Commendation Expense
On—Line Legal Research
Outside Counsel
Information Retrieval
Interpreter

Hearing Officer

Process Server
Litigation Support Material
Consultant

Settlement I Judgment
Subpoena

Summons

Public Utilities
[:] Electric
D Telephone
D Water/Sewer
D Other Utility

Miscellaneous Expenses
Deductibles Associated with

Warranties under Contract
Express Mail I Postage
Messenger! Delivery Service
Petty Cash

Local Travel I Parking
Aldermanic or Board Of
Elections

Festival, Exhibition and
Performance Costs

Program incentives
Advertising /Media Purchases

U

SE B DDDDD

