Law Oﬂire:

191 N. Wacker Drive
Suite 3700

Chicago, 11.

60606-1 698

(312) 569-1000
(312) 569-3000 fax

Www.ddnkerbidd.le.com

CALIFORNIA
DELAWARE
rumors

NEW JERSEY

NEW YORK
PENNSYLVANIA
wAsHn~1G-roN n.c.

WISCONSDV

Ertahlir/Jed 1849

Drii 11-Lc1‘Bidd]»;: R-Bcgiltli

Elizabeth V. Lopez
312-569-1439 Direct
312-569-3439 Fax
elizabeth.lopez@dbr.com

December 8, 2014

VIA E-MAIL

Freddy Martinez

5810 S. Kenneth

Chicago, IL 60629
Freddymartinez9 @ gmail. com

Re: NOTICE OF RESPONSE
REQUEST RECEIVED:
FOIA FILE NO.

November 13, 2014
14-5298

Dear Mr. Martinez:

The City of Chicago has retained Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP to assist in responding to
your Illinois Freedom of Information Act request dated November 13, 2014, a copy of
which is attached. The City of Chicago provided an initial response to your request on
December 2, 2014. Based on a conversation with your counsel, Matthew Topic, on
December 4, 2014, during which particular requests were clariﬁed, the City of Chicago
hereby provides a supplemental response to the above-referenced request.

Your request was reviewed by the Chicago Police Department’s (CPD) Organized Crime
Division and Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP. Upon review, the City of Chicago hereby
responds to your requests as follows:

+ Any and all contracts, invoices, purchase orders, proposals,
sales or marketing materials, and contract negotiation records for
Hailstorm IMSI Catchers.

The enclosed documents appear to be responsive to this request, to the extent it requests
contracts, invoices, purchase orders, proposals, and contract negotiation records.

Section 7(1) provides that “[w]hen a request is made to inspect or copy a public record
that contains information that is exempt from disclosure under this Section, but also
contains information that is not exempt from disclosure, the public body may elect to
redact the information that is exempt. The public body shall make the remaining
information available for inspection and copying.” Portions of the enclosed documents
have been redacted under the following exemptions:

Section 7(1)(d)(v) of the Illinois FOIA exempts documents that “disclose unique or
specialized investigative techniques other than those generally used and known . . . .” 5
ILCS 7(1)(d)(v). Portions of the enclosed documents disclose unique and specialized

Drii 1l<c1*Bi<.lLl]c&-Be-.1lIl}
Freddy Martinez
December 8, 2014
Page 2

investigative techniques not generally used or known and the circumstances in which
those techniques may be used (in particular, the types of investigations in which a
specialized investigative technique may be used). Those with criminal intent could use
this information in an attempt to circumvent the investigative technique at issue. As
such, the redacted information is exempt from disclosure under 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(v).

Section 7(1)(f) of the Illinois FOIA exempts “[p]reliminary drafts, notes,
recommendations, memoranda and other records in which opinions are expressed, or
policies or actions are formulated . . . .” 5 ILCS 7(1)(d)(v). Portions of the enclosed
documents fall within this exemption because they contain an internal policy discussion
regarding the purchase of the equipment subject to the request, which portions have been
redacted.

Section 7(1)(g) of the Illinois FOIA exempts “[t]rade secrets and commercial or ﬁnancial
information obtained from a person or business where the trade secrets or commercial or
financial information are furnished under a claim that they are proprietary, privileged or
conﬁdential, and that disclosure of the trade secrets or commercial or ﬁnancial
information would cause competitive harm to the person or business, and only insofar as
the claim directly applies to the records requested.” 5 ILCS 7(1)(g). The enclosed
documents contain commercial and ﬁnancial information obtained from a business under
a claim that the information is conﬁdential and proprietary. Accordingly, that
commercial and ﬁnancial information has been redacted.

In addition, sales and marketing documents responsive to this request are being withheld
pursuant to the following exemptions:

Section 7(1)(a) of the Illinois FOIA provides that “information specifically prohibited
from disclosure by federal or State law or rules and regulations implementing federal or
State law” is exempt from release under the Act. 5 ILCS 104/7(1)(a). Specifically, your
requests seeks information prohibited from disclosure by the following federal and state
laws:

(i) 6 U.S.C. § 482. Cell site simulator technology, such as IMSI Catchers, obtained and
used by local law enforcement is done solely with the permission of federal law
enforcement, which places any such technology within the ambit of the Homeland
Security Act. The Homeland Security Act, in turn, prohibits the disclosure of any such
information obtained by local law enforcement regarding that technology. Indeed, the
Homeland Security Act specifically provides that “State or local law authorizing or
requiring such a [State or local] government to disclose information shall not apply to
such information [obtained under the Act].” 6 U.S.C. § 482(e). Your requests for sales
and marketing documents for Hailstorm IMSI Catchers seek technical and other
information protected by the Homeland Security Act.

Drii 1l<c1*Bi<.lLl]c&-Be-.1lIlj
Freddy Martinez
December 8, 2014
Page 3

(ii) 22 U.S.C. § 2778. The Arms Export Control Act and implementing regulations
restrict the dissemination of technical information relating to regulated defense articles,
including the equipment that is the subject of your request. Specifically, technical details
concerning this equipment are subject to the non-disclosure provisions of the
International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), 22 C.F.R. Parts 120-130. The ITAR
requires anyone, prior to making an export of technical information, to obtain a license
from the Department of State. Technical information need not leave the borders of the
United States to be deemed an export. Providing technical information without a license
to anyone intending to publicize the information could constitute a violation of the Arms
Export Control Act. Your request for sales and marketing documents for Hailstorm IMSI
Catchers seeks information prohibited from disclosure by ITAR.

Section 7(1)(d)(v) of the Illinois FOIA exempts documents that “disclose unique or
specialized investigative techniques other than those generally used and known . . . .” 5
ILCS 7(1)(d)(v). Your request for sales and marketing materials for Hailstorm IMSI
Catchers seeks documents that disclose unique and specialized investigative techniques
not generally used or known; specifically, technical information regarding the capabilities
of Hailstorm IMSI Catchers.

Section 7(1)(g) of the Illinois FOIA exempts “[t]rade secrets and commercial or ﬁnancial
information obtained from a person or business where the trade secrets or commercial or
financial information are furnished under a claim that they are proprietary, privileged or
conﬁdential, and that disclosure of the trade secrets or commercial or ﬁnancial
information would cause competitive harm to the person or business, and only insofar as
the claim directly applies to the records requested.” 5 ILCS 7(1)(g). Your request for
sales and marketing materials for Hailstorm IMSI Catchers seeks documents that disclose
trade secrets and commercial information, and disclosure of this information would cause
competitive harm to the business providing such information.

Section 7(1)(i) of the Illinois FOIA exempts “[v]aluable formulae, computer geographic
systems, designs, drawings and research data obtained or produced by any public body
when disclosure could reasonably be expected to produce private gain or public loss. . . .”
5 ILCS 7(1)(i). Your request for sales and marketing materials for Hailstorm IMSI
Catchers seeks information exempt under this provision.

Section 7(1)(v) of the Illinois FOIA exempts “[v]ulnerability assessments, security
measures, and response policies or plans that are designed to identify, prevent, or respond
to potential attacks upon a community’s population or systems, facilities, or installations,
the destruction or contamination of which would constitute a clear and present danger to
the health or safety of the community . . . .” 5 ILCS 7(1)(v). Your request for sales and
marketing materials for Hailstorm IMSI Catchers seeks information exempt under this
provision.

Drii ll<.C1‘BlLlL‘l.lC &B<.|".1|Il‘l
Freddy Martinez
December 8, 2014

Page 4

+ Invoices related to Hailstorm training.

To the extent the enclosed documents are not responsive to this request, CPD has been
unable to locate any documents responsive to this request.

+ Documents sujficient to show where the funding for Hailstorms
came from. Included in this request in any grants, programs,
budget allocation, or federal program that funded the purchase,
training, or continued use of Hailstorms.

To the extent the enclosed documents are not responsive to this request, CPD has been
unable to locate any documents responsive to this request.

+ Documents sujficient to show reception of Hailstorms.

Based on a December 4, 2014, conversation with your counsel, CPD understands this
request as asking for any documents sufficient to show that CPD has received Hailstorm
IMSI Catchers. To the extent the enclosed documents are not responsive to this request,
CPD has been unable to locate any documents responsive to this request.

Very truly yours,

 /

\._._., .r
5. _/A x";
Z -_ {I ‘I; ‘\L I!-///\_r"_r

u‘ 2

Elizabeth V. Lopez

Encl.

cc: Daniel J. Collins
Jeff Perconte
Matthew Topic

You have the right of review of this denial by the Illinois Attorney General’s Public
Access Counselor (PAC). You can ﬁle a request for review by writing to:

Public Access Counselor
Ofﬁce of the Attorney General
500 2nd Street

Springfield, Illinois 62706

You may also seek judicial review of a denial under 5 ILCS 140/11 by ﬁling a lawsuit in
the State Circuit Court.

Drri11l{c1‘Biddlc &Bc-.1lIl‘P1
Freddy Martinez
December 8, 2014

Page 5

ACTIVE/ 78146170.1

